>> Kyle Simpson: We have seen
a number of times already, and
you've heard me say over and
over function.
And some of you are like,
why does he keep saying it?
What is a function?
Well, similar to the idea of
wanting to repeat things,
there are times when we have a collection
of statements like a paragraph in a novel.
But we wanna do that multiple times
in different places, not multiple
times in a row but like do it one time and
a little bit later do it again.
And maybe a minute later do it again.
And that's when we wanna group that
information into what we call a function.
Actually technically the computer
science programming term for
this would be a procedure.
It's a collection of things
that we want it to do.
So greetStudent like the one we were
using just a moment ago with the looping.
greetStudent takes the students name,
I mean a student object in this case.
And we know it's an object
because of line three.
You see student.name, that implies that
student is an object in memory that
has a property or a key called name and
we're gonna go access that.
First we're gonna access student and then
we gonna access the name property on it.
So we gonna just print out Hello, and
then whatever that students name is,
by the way, you'll notice these
little backtick operators here.
That's the sort of cousin to the double
quotes and single quotes, this
is a special kind of string in JavaScript
that's called an interpolated string.
I know that's a big mouthful,
interpolated string.
All that really means is
a string where we're gonna
put other kinds of variable
values directly inside of it.
And that's what you see on line three,
that special dollar sign with the curly
brace thing wrapped around student.name.
That says, go find whatever that is, and
just put it right in place
inside of this string.
Which is why when we actually do
the console.log, it would print out Hello,
Matt, or Hello, Sarah.
So, that's a procedure it uses
the word function to note it and
it has a name, called greetStudent.
It has online one there,
it has student that's called a parameter.
That's the input to it and
it's just doing something, but
you'll notice that it's not
really giving us anything back.
That's really why we call it a procedure
because it's not giving us anything back.
It's doing something which is important
but not giving us a value back.
What's an example of something where
it would give us a value back?
Well, this is a little bit more truer
to the spirit of a function, and
functions a special word that
actually comes to us from math.
And some of you may have heard of
functional programming before.
That's the idea of writing these things,
not just that they do stuff, but
that they compute values and
they give them back to us.
So here I have what's called
a function called time remaining.
It takes two inputs now.
It takes a time elapsed variable and
an end time variable.
Those have a special term
they're called parameters.
The inputs to a function and
you'll notice that it returns those back,
it computes an expression and
return as the value.
So we say endTime minus timeEllapsed and
then we say return whatever that value is.
So if timeEllapsed comes in as 42,
you see that on line five and
if endTime comes in at 240,
then when we subtract those,
subtract 42 from 240,
what we have left, of course, is 198.
That on line five we assign
to the variable left and
then we see line seven that
that value 198 is in there.
So time remaining here is a function
because it takes some inputs and
it computes an output for us, it doesn't
really go and do other stuff like
print to the screen it just says let me
do some work and give you a result back.
When we give you a computational results
back, let's try to run a function and
mess around with the arguments and
see how it changes.
We know if we run it with these
existing argument we get 198.
But, if I were to change this
around a little bit, maybe say,
make that 140 then were gonna
get different result 98.
And what if I were to change this
expression around a little bit,
what if I were to make this
an expression divided by two and
then all of a sudden, whoops,
we've got a syntax area.
That's important for you to be able to see
the kinds of things that are happening in
your program and
sometimes you make a mistake.
I have an accidental parentheses here.
So I take that back out.
We run it again and
now we get a different result.